# Smart-City-System
Smart City System

As we are moving towards more automated planet need for smart city is emerging as a concern of utmost priority. The principal idea which empowered us to work on the project “Smart City “is electric energy is consumed by the street lamps, which are automatically turn on when it becomes dark and automatically turn off when it becomes bright. This is the huge waste of energy in the whole world and should be changed.  Our smart city consists of a LED light, a Gas sensor, a IR sensor, DHT11 sensor and a LDR sensor. The lights turn on before pedestrians and vehicles come and turn off or reduce power when there is no one.

Concept Development:
In our project, the smart street light system, in which lights turn on when needed and turn off when not needed. Currently, in the whole world, enormous electric energy is consumed by the street lights, which automatically turn on when it becomes dark and automatically turn off when it becomes bright or daylight. Considering this huge waste of energy in the whole world which should be changed, our smart street light system consists of a LED lights or bulbs, a brightness and intensity sensor, a speed detection sensor, temperature and humidity sensor, toxicity level detection sensor, and wifi module for storing data in cloud. The lights turn on before pedestrians and vehicles come and turn off or reduce power when there is no one.

Methodology:
This smart city project is based and developed on street lamp, so to make this as a viable option to opt for smart city. Components used are DHT11 sensor, IR Sensors, Relay, Transformer, Power source, LCD display Wi-Fi module, gas sensor, LDR’s, Arduino, GSM module and lamp. So for this to work, starting with Arduino is connected with DHT11 sensor, IR Sensors, Relay, Transformer, Power source, Wi-Fi module, LCD display, gas sensor, LDR’s, GSM module and lamp. Whenever a high speed vehicle passes in the range of two IR sensors it detects and sent the message through GSM to concerned authorities that HIGH SPEED detect. Gas sensor detects the acidic content in the atmosphere and LDR works with one IR sensor to switch on and off the lamp and to control the intensity of lamp whenever required as it is designed as if in range of IR sensor comes a vehicle or object it will brighten the lamp else dim the lamp, Moreover LDR will detect if there is sufficient light then will turn off lamp else will lighten it up. DHT11 sensor is used to give the temperature and humidity. These all components are connected to Arduino and LCD display the temperature, humidity, Gas detect and Sending sms content. These all components also take the connection with Wi-Fi module to send the data to cloud platform as to check it remotely from anywhere about gas, status, humidity, temperature, intensity. 
